Today's text comments remind us that Jehovah is near to his worshipers.
He sees us when we feel overwhelmed or when we feel discouraged.
The fact is that Jehovah can see whatever he wishes to see whenever he desires to do so.
Now we say he chooses to do this or he can see things whenever he wants to see them
because he's not enslaved to his own power as if he can control it.
The scriptures tell us that sometimes he uses angels to report to him about certain matters.
But however he chooses to do so, Jehovah is aware of what is happening with us and with
all of his creation.
Jesus once stated that Jehovah can see what happens to a single sparrow.
How much more than he must notice and care about us, that was Jesus' point.
Let's look at another example of what Jehovah sees and we'll draw out the principle from it.
It's found in Deuteronomy chapter 22 and verses 6 and 7.
And as we read it, look for what is implied about how much Jehovah sees.
At Deuteronomy 22 and verse 6, it starts with telling us this, something the Israelites
were commanded to do.
It says, if you happen upon a bird's nest along the road with young ones or eggs, whether
in a tree or on the ground, and the mother is sitting on the young ones or the eggs, you
must not take the mother together with her young.
Be sure to send the mother away, but you may take the young for yourself.
Do this so that it may go well with you and you may live long.
So then what is implied about how much Jehovah sees?
The implication here is that Jehovah can see what a person does whenever he or she is alone
or along a roadside, so to speak.
How is that implied?
We find it in the caution of verse 7, that it may go well with you and you may live long.
To a person with faith, that statement has meaning, doesn't it?
See what we choose to do matters to Jehovah and the point is that he can see it.
And he doesn't need trail cams to do it.
He can see what we do day by day whenever he chooses.
If he sees we are reasonable and understanding, it pleases him, but he can also see if
we are unreasonable or uncaring in the things that we do.
When we choose to do his will, it affects our relationship with him in a positive way.
In our future according to that verse, you see the principles and lessons found in verses
such as these would have taught the Israelites who paid attention to them valuable lessons
about their heavenly Father and Creator.
King David would have been familiar with those words from Deuteronomy.
Think of those verses as we read what David wrote in Psalm 139 and we are going to read
verses 1 through 4.
Now Psalm 139 is a prayer and it begins saying in verse 1,
O Jehovah, you have searched through me and you know me.
You know when I sit down and when I rise up, you discern my thoughts from afar.
You observe me when I travel or along the road, right?
And when I lie down, you are familiar with all my ways.
There's not a word on my tongue, but look, O Jehovah, you already know it well.
So then whether we are at home or we are traveling far away, Jehovah knows what we do.
Even if a matter is reported to him by an angel, Jehovah can then look to see what has happened
and with his infinite wisdom and his ability to read hearts, he doesn't need a rewind
button to do it.
He can do it anytime.
David's words provide a good lesson in caution for all of Jehovah's faithful ones.
Like loyal David, we want Jehovah to see us at any time and be pleased with us, to be
pleased with the things he sees about us.
We never want him to see us violate his righteous principles and commands.
For example, are we prone to anger when we are out of the sight of others?
Then we must stop.
Are we excessive with food and drink?
Do we watch what is ungodly and immoral?
Then we must stop.
Do we neglect personal study and meditation on God's word?
Then we must start.
We please Jehovah when we conform to his righteous standards.
When we're doing our best to serve Jehovah, we feel free to ask him for help, don't we?
That's what David goes on to say in Psalm 139, verse 23, when he requests, search through
me, oh God, and know my heart, examine me and know my anxious thoughts.
David wanted Jehovah to see where he had been and to know what he had done.
In fact, David invited Jehovah to see everything, didn't he?
Which of course, Jehovah could do anyway whenever he wanted.
But the invitation from David said a lot about the man.
It said that there was something good in him.
And despite David's serious flaws, he wanted to improve.
He wasn't trying to hide anything.
And Jehovah saw that about him.
How much better it is to have freeness of speech and be able to ask Jehovah to search
through us and to help us rather than to have something that we're trying to hide
from him.
Jehovah knows if we've taken the eggs or young together with the mother bird, so to speak.
That's the point.
So the best advice is to be humble and to deal with the problem, Jehovah's way.
Now like Jehovah, Jesus also sees what is happening with us.
Even when he was on earth as a human, Jesus had exceptional, superhuman vision and ability.
Consider the account about Nathaniel, who evidently came to be known as the Apostle
Bartholomew.
We can read about him in John 1 and verses 47-50.
Now as we read the verses, look for the things that Jesus saw about or could see about this
man.
Now verse 47 tells us that Jesus saw Nathaniel coming toward him and said about him,
see, truly, an Israelite in whom there is no deceit.
Nathaniel said to him, how do you know me?
Jesus answered him, before Philip called you while you were under the fig tree I saw you.
Nathaniel responded, rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are King of Israel.
Jesus answered him, do you believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree?
You will see things greater than these.
Nathaniel was amazed that Jesus knew exactly where he had been, but there was more.
What else did Jesus in effect tell Nathaniel that he could see?
Well like his Heavenly Father, Jesus could see the heart, and so he said that Nathaniel
was a man in whom there was no deceit.
That's how we hope to have Jehovah and his Son view us when they see us under a tree
so to speak or when they look into our heart, no deceit.
If we're striving for that, then Jehovah will be near to us whenever we call to him.
And Jesus too will be with us to help us during the difficult times that are yet ahead
of us, and we must trust in that fact.
Jesus never failed his Heavenly Father, including when it came to keeping an eye on the welfare
of his disciples.
Jesus said something during his well-known prayer recorded for us in John chapter 17 that
should assure us of his love for us and his close observing of us and care for us.
We read of it in John chapter 17 and in verse 12, John 17, 12.
Jesus was just hours from his death, but with great freeness of speech he could say this
in verse 12.
When I was with him, I used to watch over them on account of your own name, which you
have given me, and I have protected them, and not one of them is destroyed, except the
Son of destruction so that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
I used to watch over them.
I have protected them, not one of them is destroyed.
Jesus could say that because that's the way he lived, it's exactly what he did.
There was never and there has never been a watchman on earth like Jesus, and we have absolute
confidence that as our Heavenly King, Jesus is always aware and ready to help us.
So then, we must seek to please Jehovah and his Son at all times, including when we are
alone.
We invite them to examine our deepest thoughts and feelings.
They know that we are not perfect, just like King David was not perfect, but just like
with David and like with Nathaniel, Jehovah and his Son see our efforts.
They also see our deepest desire to worship Jehovah without deceit and to be faithful to
the end.
And that's true of us.
They will support us and watch over us and reward us come what may.